Our bodies are made up of trillions of cells.
Yet, each individual cell
is a marvel of design and organization.
Inside our cells,
biological processes signal specific proteins
to assemble themselves into tracks
called microtubules.
Tiny molecular machines called kinesins
then transport various components
to different parts of the cell
by “walking” along the tracks.
From microscopic proteins
to enormous galaxies,
our organized universe abounds
with examples of elegant design.
As a mechanical design educator,
I view even natural things
from a design perspective.
Mechanical design considers not only
the individual components of a machine
but also how they interact.
From this viewpoint, human vision
is a magnificent example of design.
For a single eye,
the cornea, the iris, and the lens
interact to focus an image on the retina.
The light-sensitive cells of the retina,
called photoreceptors,
produce nerve signals.
Signals from the rod and cone photoreceptors
are transmitted by the optic nerve
to the brain,
where they are processed
to produce a perceived image.
Now just imagine
the multiplied complexity
when two eyes interact.
Particularly mind-boggling is
the amount of information
being constantly processed
by more than 130 million retinal receptors
and then transmitted
through the 1.2 million nerve fibers
of the optic nerve to the brain.
To me, the sheer complexity
of how all these components
flawlessly interact
is evidence of a superior Designer.
Some disagree.
They propose that the eye evolved
from a light-sensitive patch
in some ancestral creature
through small random changes.
I find the proposed process unrealistic.
Unlike design,
it is unplanned and without a goal.
We are asked to imagine that a complex system
can develop without direction,
while in the natural world
things tend to become disorganized.
But consider something
even more mind-boggling:
The design of the eye,
the optic nerve, and the brain
and how they function and interact
are completely documented in our DNA.
In fact, our DNA
contains all the instructions
for building an entire human body.
While science relies
only on physical explanations,
many individual scientists reason
that highly ordered natural systems
are evidence of a Designer.
My personal conclusion is
that there is a God who is revealed
in the magnificent designs of nature.